# General

evaluation/print_stats.py [options] _input-files_  

Reads data from stats.npy files generated by apply_solver.py (_input-files) and prints performance statistics.  

The -g option must be used to specify the generations to print statistics about. Multiple generations can be specified by using -g multiple times.  
Outputs are formatted for use in LaTeX tables.  

Can be used in two modes:
  * Normal mode:
  * Merge mode:

## Normal mode
In normal mode, you can print the mean or median best fitness / function value for the specified generations, with one output per input-file.  
Normally, the mean/median is taken across all runs and problem instances.  
Optionally, you can print for a specific problem instance, a specific run, or both. You can also print separately for each problem instance.
The input-files must be stats.npy files.

## Merge mode
In training progress mode, the minimum, median, mean and maximum terminal mean/median best fitness across all provided stats.npy files is printed.  
Normally, the mean/median is taken across all runs and problem instances.  
Optionally, you can plot for a specific problem instance, a specific run, or both. You can also print separately for each problem instance.

The input-files must be folders containing the "epoch-folders" (to be renamed), containing stats.npy files for the validation of a specific training session  
(The folders can also be further down the folder structure, you do not need to specify one input-file for each combination of hyper-parameters)

Options relevant for training progres mode:

* --merge: Activate the merge mode
* --iteration: The training iteration to print stats for

## General options

* -g / --generation: A generation to print stats for (Can be used multiple times, to print for multiple generations)
* --run: Only print for a specific run number ("run" means "iteration", when plotting stats files from training)
* --problem: --problem: Only print for a specific problem instance (Problem instances are numbered as in the training or validation problem set file)
* --individual-problems: Print for separately for every problem instance
* --median: If this flag is used, the median over best fitness / function values is used. Else, the median is used
* --digits: The number of digits to use when printing
* --scientific: Use a scientific notation instead of decimal
* --min: If this flag is used, the lowest fitness value per generation is treated as the best fitness value. Else, the highest fitness value is trated as the best fitness value.
* --log: Print the logarith of the results
